Evidencing A1: Design and plan learning activities and/or programmes of
study
This Area of Activity refers to all your professional educational
activities where you are preparing for engagement with learners. For
example you might:
Design or redesign curricula, courses and programmes of study
Identify and plan different kinds of interaction with learners in
various contexts, whether for single sessions or larger programmes
Participate in validation panels
Contribute to the creation of learning resource packs and computerbased or open learning materials or the development of virtual learning
environments
Address the following in this part of your account by critically
reflecting on:
1. The main ways in which you design and plan learning activities and/or
programmes of study (â‰¤ 100 words)
2. The reasons for your choice of:
a. subject material
b. activities and techniques
c. the particular learning technologies included in your plan
3. How your choices facilitate your students' learning in general and
within their subject area
4. At least one of the other Dimensions of the Framework for example:
- Which elements of Core Knowledge did you utilise and why
- Which Professional Values were particularly relevant and why
Type your evidence in the following text box: (currently 1113 words,
should be 600)
Is there space somewhere for a summary of what and where you teach?
In this section, I will give examples of how I plan learning activities
and programmes of study using backwards design (Wiggins and McTighe,
1988) with learning goals which focus on the requirements of other
courses, potential employers and academic careers. I will describe how I
use scaffolding (Coffey 2015) in order to gradually build knowledge and
skills (Professional value V3). I will also describe how I plan student
research projects and meetings with research students. I will start by
describing my role and the teaching that I do so that I can relate back
to these when giving examples.
I am a research fellow in the department of Meteorology at the University
of Reading and will be moving to a faculty position (associate professor)
in March 2016. I have taken the following opportunities to teach and
support learning during my fellowship:
* I teach a 30 hour module “Introduction to Numerical Methods” to about
30 MSc students and 10 PhD students, consisting of computing and noncomputing classes.
* I teach 10 hours of a module on numerical analysis to the students at
the Mathematics for Planet Earth Centre for Doctoral Training (MPECDT),
split between Reading and Imperial College.
* I am the main lecturer at the biennial NERC funded NCAS Climate

Modelling Summer School.
* I have previously supervised 5 MSc dissertations, 3 undergraduate
dissertations and 1 MSc group project and am currently supervising 1 PhD
project and 2 Master's projects.
* I am the Reading Admissions tutor for MPECDT.
I took over teaching the MSc module “Introduction to Numerical Methods”
in 2011 and I immediately responded to some student feedback – my
feedback, having taken this course many years previously. I remembered
that analysing the stability of numerical methods had been difficult
because I had forgotten the details of Fourier analysis. I also discussed
the module with a colleague who said that many students could not
manipulate complex numbers and stability analysis uses complex numbers. I
therefore created a complex numbers revision worksheet for students to
complete in their own time during the first week of term, thus providing
scaffolding for the more challenging stability analysis later in the
term. Based on student feedback over the years about gaps in prior
knowledge, I have added topics to this worksheet and it now appears on
the department web page for prospective students to study before they
arrive. This has facilitated students' learning because they no longer
get lost so easily when new mathematical methods are introduced which
build upon material in the worksheet. (Demonstrating core knowledge K3.)
I added material on Fourier analysis to the Numerical Methods module for
three reasons:
* Fourier analysis one of the tools needed for stability analysis
* Fourier analysis is often not understood in sufficient depth by
research students
* Fourier analysis is very widely used in scientific research.
The learning objectives for Fourier analysis are to:
* Interpret Fourier Power spectra and relate the features of the power
spectra to features of meteorological data such as the annual cycle
* Use a Fourier decomposition as part of the stability analysis of a
numerical method.
The assessments are aligned with these objectives and during classes the
students work on similar exercises. I received a thank you email from a
student in 2012 saying that she had been asked about Fourier analysis in
her interview to do a PhD and could answer because of my module. I have
also had discussions with former MSc students while they were using
Fourier analysis for their PhD research. (Demonstrating core knowledge
K1.)
In 2012, I decided to change the programming language that I used for
teaching to Python. The Numerical Methods module had previously used
Fortran and Python and the summer school had previously used IDL.
Teaching using two languages puts an unnecessary burden on the students
and all of these languages have commercial compilers or interpreters and
so are expensive to use after leaving university, particularly for
students returning to less wealthy countries after their studies. I chose
to use Python for the following reasons:
* Python is being used by the Met Office, one of the biggest employers of
our graduates (V4)
* Python interpreters are widely available, free and available on many
platforms.
* Studies of how students learn programming have shown that Python is an
easy language to learn (ref) (V3)

When I first started teaching (in 2005), I wrote notes on the white board
for the students to copy. Students gave feedback that they couldn't copy
the material quickly or accurately enough and they would like hand-outs.
Responding (K6), I created notes to be handed out and projected overhead
during classes. These notes were concise in order to avoid cognitive
overload during class. The notes also had gaps for students to fill in so
that the students had to remain engaged. I have received numerous
positive comments about the notes with gaps over the years but critical
feedback saying that the notes do not have enough information. I have
therefore added considerably more information and references but my notes
are no longer concise enough to be projected. I overcome this problem in
two ways. Firstly, I often do not display the notes but instead describe
the concepts and give the students time to read the notes after. This has
received a mixed reception. Secondly, I have created a much more concise,
over-head version of the notes. I am using this concise version to make
teaching videos (see A2).
During lectures I plan to talk for no more than 10 or 15 minutes at a
time before I give the students the opportunity to practice what they are
learning. There is conflicting evidence about attention span during
lectures (eg Johnstone and Percival, 1976, Matheson, 2008 and Wilsona and
Korna, 2009) but I find that the students do not all follow my
complicated lecture material for more than 10 to 15 minutes. A 10 to 15
minute lecture piece may involve an introduction to a new subject with
motivation and visuals. I have been using data visualisation and
animations to show the solutions of equations and how these relate the
the weather. I am also planning to insert images as metaphor to
complement the verbal stream (eg
https://teatropolitan.files.wordpress.com/2009/07/takasugian02.jpg?w=510
to represent an unstable numerical method, before describing stability
analysis). I also use lecture pieces to explain a new technique or to
show a worked example. (This uses my knowledge of the subject material,
K1 and demonstrates appropriate methods of teaching (K2) based on
evidence (V3).)
Say something about supervising research students?
References
* Coffey, H., cited 2015, “Scaffolding” http://www.learnnc.org/lp/pages/5074
* Wiggins, G. and McTighe, J., 1988, "Understanding by Design", ASCD

