Evidencing A2: Teach and/or support learning
This Area of Activity is about your direct engagement with learners
whether in groups or individually. These encounters may be in a wide
range of environments, such as classrooms, seminar rooms, lecture
theatres, labs, learning support centres, offices, professional settings,
etc.
Your teaching activities might include for example, lecturing, tutorial
and seminar work, studio, clinical, laboratory or workplace-based
teaching, distance learning and the use of virtual learning environments.
The support you give might include, for example, teaching and supervision
of postgraduates, mentoring inexperienced staff or contributing to inhouse learning and teaching programmes.
Address the following points in this section of your account by
critically reflecting on:
1. The main ways in which you teach and/or support learners (â‰¤ 100
words)
2. The activities or techniques you use and why
3. How you came to use them and why you think they were successful in
supporting student learning? Give reasons for your choice of activities
and techniques and how they relate to developing the learners'
understanding of the subject
4. Which elements of Core Knowledge did you utilise, how and why
5. Which Professional Values were particularly relevant and why
Type your evidence in the following text box: (currently 723 words,
should be 600)
I engage with learners through lectures, peer instruction, running
computing labs, supervising post-graduate students and I have recently
started to make teaching videos in order to flip the classroom.
Since I started teaching numerical methods in 2011, I have ensured that
all students are engaged in lectures, not just the top few who are
prepared to answer questions. I therefore use hand-outs with gaps so that
all students are invited to engage and try to answer the question
(Professional value V2). I realised that a technique like this was
necessary after a seminar in the mathematics department describing how
students can only learn if they attempt to answer questions put to them.
I have had mostly positive feedback from students about this approach but
it is clear that it is not perfect – still there are students who do not
engage or who just cannot answer the questions. I have therefore recently
started to use is peer instruction with multiple choice questions and
think-pair-share sessions, due to the wealth of evidence supporting the
efficacy of this technique (eg "Peer Instruction, A User's Manual" by
Eric Mazur) (V3). I have tried a high tech approach using a specialised
website (mqclicker.com) and asking students to bring their smartphones to
class. This was popular with students (evidenced by feedback at the
staff-student forum) but very time consuming, both to set up and during
the class. I have therefore moved to a low-tech approach; asking students
to show 1, 2, 3 or 4 fingers against their chest to answer questions in
private. This is much quicker and also allows me to ask questions when
they arise during class without the need for painstaking preparation.
This therefore appears to be an appropriate technology (K4). The
questions that I ask are usually answered correctly by less than half of

the class at the first attempt and by well over half after peer
instruction. This demonstrates that the questions are at the appropriate
level for the academic programme (K2).
I try to avoid asking questions for volunteers to answer during lectures
as this only engages a small fraction of the class. I also avoid picking
on students to answer questions. If I pick on a strong student then I am
not engaging with the weaker students whereas if I spotlight a weak
student who cannot answer then I risk humiliating them. (Professional
value V1.) I also ask students to nominate each other to answer questions
based on their peer interactions. This was a technique highlighted in a
university training course on “ Enhancing Teaching, Engaging Learners:
Personalising Teaching to Deepen Learning”, October 2011. By asking
students to nominate each other to talk, I would like to hear from a
larger fraction of the class. This has not yet happened but I will
persist a little longer.
I take computing labs in which students undertake programming exercises
and ask questions. Over the years I have been teaching this course, I
have provided more example code for the students to copy and modify in
order to teach them good programming style. When I took over the course,
the students were expected to code everything from scratch and they
handed in some wild and impenetrable code. I now give them more
scaffolding (Coffey 2015): some code to start with and they have to find
where they need to add code. This means that they learn good programming
style by reading the code that I have given them and they do not spend
time designing bad code because I have provided them with a good
framework. The scaffolding is taken away in the more advanced module in
the following term, in which the students have to write code from
scratch. In the future I am going to focus more on version control and
group programming by using git, github (https://github.com/) and python
notebook as recommended for teaching by Lorena Barba
(http://lorenabarba.com/) and Greg Wilson of Software Carpentry
(http://software-carpentry.org/). Would it be worth referring here to
this being a scaffolding technique to build up to Pier Luigi's more
advanced module (scaffolding is a good reference)
I have started to make SHORT teaching videos and screen casts:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCO0YwmerBCvW-BrR8kcjLzw
to support my teaching. I have tried to avoid having to make these videos
myself by searching for videos that others have made on similar topics
but I have always found other people's videos to be too long. (eg 50
minutes rather than 10 minutes). I have found videos to be a good way of
learning material myself and I have had some positive informal feedback
from students about my videos. Can you include some examples? I am hoping
that the videos will be particularly helpful for students whose English
comprehension is weak so that they can re-wind and try to understand what
I am saying, displaying professional values V1 and V2. Exellent awareness
here.
References
* Coffey, H., cited 2015, “Scaffolding” http://www.learnnc.org/lp/pages/5074
* Johnstone, A.H. and Percival, F., 1976 "Attention Breaks in Lectures", Education in
Chemistry
* Matheson, C., 2008. "The educational value and effectiveness of lectures", The
Clinical Teacher
* Mazur, E. and Somers, M.D., 1999, "Peer Instruction: A User's Manual", Am. J. Phys.
67 (359)

* Wilsona, K. and Korna, J.H., 2009 "Attention During Lectures: Beyond Ten Minutes",
Teaching of Psychology, 34(2): 85-89

