Evidencing A3: Assess and give feedback to learners
This Area of Activity is about how you use assessment and feedback to
foster and encourage learning, assess progress and make judgements about
your learners during and on completion of their study/engagements with
you. The assessment you undertake may be formative or summative, formal
or informal. Feedback may for example, be face to face, written through
annotating students work, or through using electronic means such as
podcasts and social media.
Address the following points in this section of your account by
critically reflecting on:
1. The main types of formative and/or summative assessment that you use
with learners, whether formal or informal? (â‰¤ 100 words)
2. How and why you choose the particular approaches and methods you
employ, insofar as this was your own decision
3. How you ensure your assessments are valid indicators of what you want
your learners to learn, that your marking is reliable and the standards
you set are appropriate
4. How you give feedback to learners
5. How you ensure the feedback you give learners helps them to improve
their understanding of the subject or their performance and development
as learners
6. Which elements of Core Knowledge you utilised, how and why
7. Which Professional Values you applied, how and why
Type your evidence in the following text box: (924 words)
The summative assessment methods that I use are coursework (with written
reports and computer code) and exams. Some of the written reports are
about group work. The formative assessment methods are multiple choice
questions, short pieces of un-assessed homework and individual
discussions with each student during computer lab classes.
Since taking over the Numerical Methods MSc module, I have made the
coursework more open-ended, inviting students to explore and investigate
and to write a stand-alone report and I have introduced group work. The
open-ended, problem-based coursework is aimed at encouraging curiosity
and deep learning (core knowledge K3). This is in line with the QAA
publication on “Master's degree characteristics” which says that Msc
students should “use initiative and take responsibility”, “solve problems
in creative and innovative ways” and “communicate effectively” (V4). The
group work is aimed at encouraging collaboration and communication
between students.
My Numerical Methods module has two pieces of coursework. The first is
worth much less than the second and so it acts, to an extent, like
formative assessment and students use the feedback to improve their work
for the second piece of coursework. I also give feedback to the whole
class after the first piece of assessed coursework as many of them
require the same feedback. This whole class feedback occurs both during
class time and on the course website. I have recently started to use
online and electronic tools for marking, commenting on work and providing
written feedback so the students receive the feedback and marked work
electronically. This eliminates problems reading my handwriting. I also
offer oral feedback on assessments during office hours and during
computing labs.

When I took over Numerical Methods, I encouraged the students to hand in
three pieces of unassessed homework in advance of the assessed homework
so that I could give feedback and receive feedback on my teaching (K5).
Having taught the course for a few years, I no longer need this much
feedback for my teaching. Instead, I am using multiple choice questions
and I am providing model answers for unassessed homework so that the
students still receive enough feedback.
Perhaps omit the following paragraph to save space
Some of the students I teach need more feedback than I have so far given in order to
master the important skill of writing reports. To address this, I will ask the
students to provide each other with peer feedback (Liu and Carless, 2006)
(V3) on the introduction of their first report and assess each other
using the marking scheme supplied. I hope that this will encourage the
students to write clear introductions. They will then gain experience by
reading three of their colleague's introductions and they will gain
experience of giving and receiving feedback. They will then have an
opportunity to make corrections to their introduction based on the
feedback, thus closing the feedback loop. They will hand in the first
draft of their introduction, the final version of their report and the
feedback that they gave to three of their peers. I will mark the final
report and, as this is a trial, I will give contribution points for
providing feedback. Using this approach, I am concerned about the risks
of plagiarism, which is why I am only asking the students to read each
other's introductions, not whole reports.
During the computer labs I ensure that I talk to every student
individually even if they are not asking for help. I ask them questions
about what they are doing as formative assessment and I provide informal
feedback.
The quality assurance processes in place at the University of Reading are
helpful in ensuring that assessments are valid indicators of what I want
students to learn and in ensuring that marking is reliable and standards
are appropriate (K6). Every module has a module supporter to check the
marking and to check examinations. In writing assessments, I carefully
compare questions with learning objectives. I usually ask the module
supporter to do more than is required by the University. I ask them to
check coursework assignments, marking schemes and model answers before
assignments are given to students as well as checking the marking. In
addition, I have also asked the lecturer who was previously delivering my
module to check a change that I made to an assignment. The writing of
model answers and marking schemes also helps to ensure that the marking
is reliable. I have been the module supporter for the more advanced
Numerical Methods module which allows me to ensure that there is a
gradual progression in standard between the two modules.
When I am marking work I try to get an over-all impression of the mark as
well as giving individual marks based on the marking scheme and I
question both the marking scheme and my over-all impression if the two do
not agree. Having marked all of the work, I then order it and re-read to
check that I have the correct order for the class. Finally, the marking
is checked by the module supporter. The check between my over-all
impression and the mark helps to ensure that the standard is appropriate.
My department compares marks between different courses and an external
examiner examines coursework and exams which also helps to ensure that
standards are appropriate. (Adherence to these moderation processes
demonstrate core knowledge K5 and K6.)

QAA publication on “Master's degree characteristics”, The Quality
Assurance Agency for Higher Education 2010, www.qaa.ac.uk.
Liu, N-F and Carless, D. “Peer feedback: the learning element of peer
assessment ”, 2006, Teaching in Higher Education , 11(3)

