Evidencing A4: Develop effective learning environments and approaches to
student support and guidance
This Area of Activity is about how you make effective use of both the
formal and informal learning environment to facilitate learning, and how
you seek to meet the needs of your learners for educational support and
guidance. It includes how you:
Utilise and manage the full range of physical or virtual learning
environments so that they are appropriate to your learners' needs
Work with learners and service providers to ensure that your learners can
access and use a broad range of learning opportunities. Learner support
might include such activities as personal and academic tutoring, one-toone advice, counselling, developing practice to meet the learning
implications of widening access, or supporting learners with disabilities
Use examples from your practice where you have utilised the learning
environment and/or provided support and guidance to your learners.
Address the following points in this section of your account by
critically reflecting on:
1. The main types of educational environment in which you work and/or
what kinds of support and guidance you give to your learners, whether
formal or informal (â‰¤ 100 words)
2. How you have contributed to making the learning environment more
effective for learners
3. The ways you have contributed to supporting and guiding your learners
4. Why you chose those particular strategies and how well they worked
5. Which elements of Core Knowledge you used, how and why
6. Which Professional Values you applied, how and why
Type your evidence in the following text box: (633 words)
The physical environments in which I work are classrooms and PC labs and
my office for meetings with research students. I also use virtual
environments – I have introduced discussion forums for the courses that I
teach which I will discuss below. I also offer one to one or group
support during office hours.
I have contributed to making the learning environment more effective by
encouraging students to ask questions on the course discussion forum
rather than emailing me. This encourages students to read previous posts
before they post. These questions can be asked anonymously, thus
respecting individual learners (V1). The students benefit because they
can learn from the questions of other students. I benefit because I only
have to answer each question once. This is an appropriate use of a
learning technology (K4) and it is also a method of evaluating the
effectiveness of my teaching (K5). I am also applying professional values
V1 and V2; by making all of these questions and answers visible to all
students, all can benefit from them, not just the self confident students
who are prepared to ask questions. Last year, for my Numerical Methods
module, there were 132 posts in total from 17 participants. I estimate
that about half the posts were from me. I aimed to answer all questions
on the forum within 12 hours but it was often much faster.
I support learners who are not fluent in English (V1 and V2) by ensuring
that all important communications are written down so that they do not
have to rely on understanding me talking. This also recognises the wider
context in which higher education operates (V4); We are trying to attract

more students from overseas and so we must provide them with teaching
material that is comprehensible.
I am interested in the idea of stereotype inoculation (eg Jaschick 2011).
I am a white woman so I hope to inoculate the class against the idea that
women cannot do mathematics and computing. Many of my students are Asian
and I have provided them with a role model by conducting a skype
interview during a lecture with an Asian member of staff at the Met
Office about career prospects in atmospheric science.
I use memory techniques to remember the names of the students who I teach
(eg http://www.buildyourmemory.com/faces.php). This has not always been 100%
successful. However I understand that this is important for providing an
inclusive environment. I plan to do this better in future years by
interviewing all students about their background and how to pronounce
their name during the first practical computing session of the term. I
will then also apply the memory techniques during these interviews.
I supervise student research projects at undergraduate, Masters and PhD level. Some
of these are jointly supervised with staff from the UK Met Office. This is particularly
useful, demonstrating the value of the research to the student and meeting the needs
of the Met Office. It is common to give students a large amount of literature to read at
the start of their project. This is not how I was supervised as a student and I have had
negative feedback from other people's research students about this technique. I
always start student projects with an active piece of research such as coding or
running a model. They then read the literature gradually in order to understand what
they are doing and where they are going. This helps students to be invested in the
projects. When meeting with research students, I very much like not answering their
questions but instead pointing them towards finding the answer themselves. This
gives students to confidence to undertake a research project rather than falling back
on their supervisor who appears to know everything.
References
Jaschick, S. 2011, "Inoculation Against Stereotype", Inside Higher Ed

