Evidencing A5: Engage in continuing professional development in
subjects/disciplines and their pedagogy, incorporating research,
scholarship and the evaluation of professional practices
This Area of Activity is about how you maintain and develop your
capability to perform your teaching and learning support roles. It
includes:
How you incorporate subject and pedagogic research and/or scholarship
within your professional practice as a teacher/supporter of learning
How you gather and utilise information from your own activities
Activities you undertake as part of a group or team are valued as much as
individual activities. You do not have to be directly involved in
research, and if your main responsibilities lie outside this area please
indicate how you support your teaching and support of learning through
other types of scholarly and/or professional activity. Relevant
professional activities may include those you engage in outside the
higher education context.
These activities are likely to be wide ranging, incorporating both formal
and informal approaches to continuing professional development. Examples
include:
presenting or participating in conferences on teaching and learning
(often discipline-specific)
attending workshops or training events
engaging in peer observation or peer review of teaching
regular departmental meetings where the discussion is about learning
and teaching issues
‘corridor discussions’ about teaching
bidding for and involvement in projects or research on teaching and
learning
implementing new approaches
subject and other network activities
reading
visits to other institutions/organisations
Address the following in your account:
1. Your main strategies for updating and developing your capability as a
teacher/supporter of learning (≤ 100 words). Refer here to any
activities you have undertaken to update yourself on aspects of teaching
and learning, for example, staff development activities or conferences on
learning and teaching or participation in projects to develop learning
methods
2. How you used the outcomes from the above CPD strategies to improve the
student learning experience and your own working practice
3. Which elements of Core Knowledge you utilised, how and why
4. Which Professional Values you applied, how and why
Type your evidence in the following text box: (486 words)
I attended a session organised by Lorena Barba at a recent SIAM
conference on "Teaching Computational Thinking"
(http://www.siam.org/meetings/cse15/). There were discussions on teaching
version control and automatic grading of assignments for large classes. I
am planning to teach version control using git next year in one of my

courses. Lorena Barba presented evidence that teaching programming using
python helped students to learn programming more quickly as they do not
have to spend a lot of time learning the syntax. She also described how
she asks students to code up an unstable numerical method before they
have done the stability analysis shown that it is unstable. This gives
them the motivation for understanding the stability analysis. I am
planning to re-sequence activities next year to accommodate this advice.
She advised that students should not be given electronic versions of code
to modify - they should be given printed code and asked to retype it, to
ensure that they read the code carefully before making the required
modifications. I will also incorporate this technique. From this
conference session I learned about some appropriate teaching methods (K2)
and about some evidence-informed approaches (V3). Swap this with the next
paragraph so that you do general then specific
During October and November 2014 I undertook a 60 hour MOOC on STEM
teaching (http://www.siam.org/meetings/cse15/) in which I achieved a
"Statement of Acomplishment with Distinction" and 92% overall in
multiple-choice questions and peer-assessed assignments. During this
course I learned about the principles of learning, learning objectives,
assessments, numerous forms of learning activities including peer
instruction, learning environments, student motivation and lesson
planning. As a result of this course I implemented peer instruction into
my classes and I have been making teaching videos. (swap with previous
paragraph)
I have learned from peer observations of my lectures - in particular that
I need to spend more time going through exercises after the students have
attempted the exercises. I have also learned from observing other
people's lectures and I have been asked to observe lectures in addition
to my department quota. For example, I have learned to ask for very short
feedback, on post-it notes, at the end of every class. This has enhanced
my knowledge of methods for evaluating the effectiveness of teaching
(K5).
I am involved in a research project to design a new weather and climate
forecasting model with the UK Met Office. This project is closely aligned
with the subjects I am teaching. As a result of the Met Office project, I
have introduced a new topic into my teaching: the finite element method,
because the Met Office are developing a finite element model. The
inclusion of this new topic demonstrates my knowledge of the subject
material (K1) and an acknowledgement of the wider context in which higher
education operates (V4), creating taught material that is relevant to
prospective employers.
I will continue to attend university workshops on teaching and sessions
on teaching at conferences. I think you need to demonstrate sustained
committment to development a little better. You could mention attending
dept weekly staff meetings that have teaching focus and external examiner
feedback meetings?

