Evidencing A5: Engage in continuing professional development in subjects/disciplines and their pedagogy, incorporating research, scholarship and the evaluation of professional practices
This Area of Activity is about how you maintain and develop your capability to perform your teaching and learning support roles. It includes:

    How you incorporate subject and pedagogic research and/or scholarship within your professional practice as a teacher/supporter of learning

    How you gather and utilise information from your own activities

Activities you undertake as part of a group or team are valued as much as individual activities. You do not have to be directly involved in research, and if your main responsibilities lie outside this area please indicate how you support your teaching and support of learning through other types of scholarly and/or professional activity. Relevant professional activities may include those you engage in outside the higher education context.

These activities are likely to be wide ranging, incorporating both formal and informal approaches to continuing professional development. Examples include:

    presenting or participating in conferences on teaching and learning (often discipline-specific) 

    attending workshops or training events

    engaging in peer observation or peer review of teaching

    regular departmental meetings where the discussion is about learning and teaching issues

    ‘corridor discussions’ about teaching

    bidding for and involvement in projects or research on teaching and learning

    implementing new approaches

    subject and other network activities

    reading

    visits to other institutions/organisations

Address the following in your account:

1. Your main strategies for updating and developing your capability as a teacher/supporter of learning (≤ 100 words). Refer here to any activities you have undertaken to update yourself on aspects of teaching and learning, for example, staff development activities or conferences on learning and teaching or participation in projects to develop learning methods

2. How you used the outcomes from the above CPD strategies to improve the student learning experience and your own working practice

3. Which elements of Core Knowledge you utilised, how and why

4. Which Professional Values you applied, how and why

Type your evidence in the following text box:

