Recognition Application

Please complete the form below.
8%
Your recognition application

Welcome to the application process for becoming a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA). By applying to become a Fellow you will have the opportunity to:

    Think deeply about and thereby enhance the quality and effectiveness of your work in the area of teaching and supporting learning in HE;
    Gain national recognition for your role as a teacher and/or supporter of learning within the HE context.

You will need to have access to the UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF) which can be downloaded from http://www.heacademy.ac.uk/professional-recognition and a working knowledge of its contents in order to prepare your application. Below is an overview of the process for applying to become a Associate Fellow.
What are the main evidence requirements for Fellowship? 

There are two main parts to your application:

    An Account of Professional Practice (APP)
    Supporting statements from two referees (REF)

Your application must also include supporting statements from two referees. . The referees should be colleagues who are in a position to comment, on your record of effectiveness in relation to teaching and the support of learning. 
General principles to consider in preparing your APP

    The heart of your application will be the completion of a 3000 word (approx) Account of your Professional Practice as a teacher and/or supporter of learning, spread evenly across the five Areas of Activity. In this account you should explain how you meet the requirements outlined in Descriptor 2 (D2) of the UK Professional Standards Framework.
    D2 requires you to demonstrate achievement and success in all the Dimensions of the Framework – i.e. the Areas of Activity, Core Knowledge and Professional Values. You will need to incorporate relevant subject and pedagogic research and/or scholarship in your approaches. How you evidence this will be dependent on the context in which you are working, the nature of the subject, discipline or profession in which you teach, and the expectations of the institution in which you work.
    Use the elements of the Core Knowledge and Professional Values Dimensions set out in the Framework to critically reflect on each of the five Areas of ActivityYou should aim to include example(s) of your use of/commitment to each element of the Professional Values and Core Knowledge in some part of your account.
    Ensure you provide reasons for the choice of activities you describe, and demonstrate that you reflect on your teaching practice and the students’ learning experience.
    The HEA recognises that there will be considerable variation in applications, reflecting differences in individual’s experience, their job roles and institutional contexts. The quality of your reflection is far more important than quantity.
    The APP is a personal account so you should focus throughout on your own professional practice and decision-making.
    Use the Area of Activity statements within the Framework as sub headings for your account. Aim to write 600 words for each area though some flexibility in length is acceptable.
    Remember that in your reflections you should make explicit use of the elements of Core Knowledge and Professional Values to reflect on the activities you are describing.


